hey guys skinny peeps one here I'm today
we're gonna talk about hey for guinea
pigs some people do not know that hey is
80% of their diet it is the most
important thing and they require it at
all times
24/7 they should never ever have no hay
in their cage they have to have it at
all times now think of a guinea pig in
the wild what are they gonna eat the
most of grasses and plants all he is is
a dried grass it's the most natural
thing for them to have pellets are not
those are man-made those are just like a
multivitamin veggies are very healthy
for them but you can't over feed that
it's too much sugar and it's too much
liquid give them diarrhea hay is the one
thing that they can have unlimited
amounts of and can continue to eat it
all day now first off you need to know
that guinea pigs have open rooted teeth
meaning they are forever growing we can
see their incisors in the front but they
have lots of molars in the back that
only a veterinarian can look at so not
only are we worried about the front
teeth but their molars long strand hay
is the only thing that is going to grind
down those back molars sure chew toys
and stuff can help with the front
incisors but nothing like hay gets those
molars working when they're eating a
long strand piece of hay their molars
are grinding against each other
naturally wearing down if guinea piece
do not have hay things like pellets or
veggies are not gonna grind those teeth
down properly and they're gonna over
grow so like their molars are here they
can start to grow and they can curve and
if it's a serious case it's actually
trapped their tongue or it's cut through
tongue like it's terrible because like
basically they would starve to death
because they can't properly move their
mouth it is so serious so if you ever
thought your teeth like your guinea pigs
teeth were overgrown you need to take
them to an exotic
and they were would require dental
surgery to correct this but feeding hay
24/7 long strand hay is gonna do its
very best to prevent this some pigs I
know can still possibly get my occlusion
even though they're on lots of hay but
it's rare it would just be something
that you can't control and anyway as for
the rest of the piggies hey hey hey hey
now make sure it's long strand hay
because as I said that is what grinds
our teeth down if you're feeding
compressed hay like little haystacks
from Oxbow or little hay cubes that's
not gonna be the same thing that is not
an alternative that is just a little
snack like when it's little teeny pieces
of compressed hay and that's super easy
for them to eat and that is not
requiring their jaw to grind it down so
it has to be long strand hay
now if your piggies are six months or
older timothy hay orchard grass hay
bluegrass say whatever you want just not
alfalfa hay because that's too high in
calcium so I think timothy is probably
one of the most popular ones you hear
about some people find that a bit too
dusty I personally use ox bows orchard
grass hay some people absolutely love
km's bluegrass hay like there's tons of
different types you can get just don't
get the FL fo and make sure you do have
it in the cage at all times lots of it
when your guinea pigs don't have any
pellets to eat or veggies they're gonna
be eating hay and that is the absolute
most healthy thing that you can be doing
for them is allowing them to eat hay at
all times what else can we talk about oh
it's also super not just good for their
teeth it's super good for their stomachs
guinea pigs stomachs are forever moving
functioning digesting it is absolutely a
serious thing if they did not have any
food in their stomachs their stomachs
can stop and it is crazy hard to get it
stirred again that is something super
important to know they forever need
something in their tummies to keep
moving and it's also hay is high in
fibers which
is excellent for them to poop properly
so it's good for their teeth it's good
for their tummies it's good for their
health they need it at all times that's
80% of their diet so pellets for pigs is
not not a diet for piggies it's hay so
if you're allergic to hay and perhaps
piggies aren't to the pet for you but
hey hey hey that is what they need if
you want to ask any questions just leave
a comment below see you guys later